# Database_systems_2
BSc (Hons) in Computing in Software Development / Games Development - Database Systems 2
Continuous Assessment CA1 (50%) TEAM PROJECT
Brief
For this group project assignment, working in teams of 3-5 member, you are required to design and build
a database application using MySQL and Java.
Your team should identify an end-user need that you would like to build an application for. It should have
approximately 6 to 8 entities of importance and should contain at least one M:N relationship that you
have to resolve. The project should respond to all sections of the Project Specifications checklist on
Moodle, include a detailed description of your application, ‘making-of’ screen grabs with comments
documenting the process and a reflective analysis on the strengths, weaknesses and remedies for
developing the application. You may not use any project or application that you have created for a
previous Database module.
PROVIDE ONLY THE SQL COMMANDS IN A NOTEPAD++ FILE THAT CREATES YOUR TABLES AND FULFILLS ALL OF
THE PROJECT SQL REQUIREMENTS. DO NOT SUBMIT A PHPMyAdmin DUMPFILE OF YOUR DATABASE OR TABLES.
Deliverables, Submission Deadline & Marking Criteria
Upload presentation materials and ‘process’ workbook (word / pdf file) or video essay (with links to zipped project
files on One Drive) - to Moodle tabs on/before deadlines:
CA1 Milestone 1 (30%)
50% of Project Specification Completed & Uploaded to Moodle - on/before 5pm Friday 24th October 2025
CA1 Milestone 2 (30%)
100% of Project Specification Completed & Uploaded to Moodle - on/before 5pm Friday 21st November 2024
CA1 Milestone 3 – Part 1 (20%) In-class Presentation
‘Show & Tell’ Demonstration of Project Specifications and Feedback session - week beginning Monday 1st December 2025
CA1 Milestone 3 – Part 2 (20%) Process Documentation
Workbook or Video Essay with Reflective Analysis Uploaded to Moodle - on/before 5pm Friday 5th December 2025
Feedback on Project will be delivered during class sessions.
For all submissions, please upload one WinZip file per team containing the relevant files :
• Word File containing names and responsibility of authors, scenario, ERD, database schema and tables, together with process
documentation (or video essay) and reflective analysis. For Normalisation, you may have an additional excel file or you can
include this in the word file.
• .sql or Notepad file with your table creation statements, CRUD statements, triggers, indexes, views, stored procedures,
database administration and transactions. Make sure to have clear comments to show each section.
• .java file for JDBC.
If you use a software tool to create an ERD diagram, save it as a Word version for submission.
ONE member ONLY of each group needs to submit the documentation. Make sure to specify the names of all the
members of the team in the title page of the project.
- Please check the links included in the document (to zipped project files on One Drive) are working!
Notes to Students
This information on this assignment brief may represent only one component of the overall module. Please ensure
that you contact the lecturers teaching on this module for the information on assessments relating to the other
components of the module. It is your responsibility to ensure that you complete all assessments for every module.
Please note that all work submitted as partial fulfilment of this module must adhere to the Institute Academic
Integrity Policy. The Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Your Assessments A Guide for Students provides useful
support information for students (including an example of wording to be used for Declaration of Use statement).
• If you have been permitted to use AI in the preparation of your assignment you should include a
Declaration of Use acknowledging that you have used generative artificial intelligence in the creation of
material for the assessment. Material that has not been adapted/modified should be referenced using
existing reference styles. The Declaration of Use1 should be included in an appendix in the assessment
submitted by the learner and should:
• Provide a written acknowledgment of the use of generative artificial intelligence.
• Specify which technology/technologies were used.
• Identify the prompts used.
• Provide the resulting outputs.
• Explain how the output was used in the submitted work (used directly or modified).
• If generative artificial intelligence (AI) is permitted in the assessment and the learner has chosen not
to use it, the following disclosure in the learner submission is recommended: “No content
generated by AI technologies has been used in this assessment”.
• All work submitted must be accompanied by a Continuous Assessment Cover Sheet.
• We recommend all students consult the DkIT Guide to Harvard Referencing which provides useful
information on referencing and how to avoid plagiarism. https://www.dkit.ie/documents/dkit-referencing-
guidelines-and-how-avoid-plagiarism
• All work must be submitted by the due date indicated by your lecturer(s). Any work submitted after the
due date is subject to the penalties outlined in the Institute Continuous Assessment Procedures.
• The terms recoverable and non-recoverable are detailed in the Institute Continuous Assessment
Procedures.
